Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
Cats walk on their toes.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.
A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.
