Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
Cats walk on their toes.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.
Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
The average litter of kittens is between 2 - 6 kittens.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
